Glossaire
Activity: “A unit of work that a role performs. An activity may be decomposed into steps. Activities
produce or modify artifacts.”
Artifact: “A piece of information that is produced, modified, or used by a process, defines an area of
responsibility, and is subject to version control. An artifact can be a model, a model element, or a
document.
Backlog : A list of items that have still to be completed. There are several types of Backlogs used in
agile methods. Product Backlog, Project Backlog and Iteration Backlog.
Build : An operational version of a system or part of a system that demonstrates a subset of the
capabilities to be provided in the final product.
Change management: The activity of controlling and tracking changes to artifacts.
Change Request (CR) : A request to change an artifact or process. Documented in the CR is
information on the origin and impact of the current problem, the proposed solution, and its cost.
Configuration management: A supporting process workflow whose purpose is to identify, define, and
baseline items; control modifications and releases of these items; report and record status of the items
and modification requests; ensure completeness, consistency, and correctness of the items; and control
storage, handling , and delivery of the items.
Deployment: A core discipline in the software engineering process whose purpose is to ensure a
successful transition of the developed system to its users. Included are artifacts such as training
materials and installation procedures.
Discipline: A logical grouping of roles, activities, artifacts, and other elements of guidance in the
description of a process.
Environment: A supporting discipline in the software engineering process whose purpose is to define
and manage the environment in which the system is being developed; includes process descriptions,
configuration management, and development tools.
Implementation: A discipline in the software engineering process whose purpose is to implement and
unit test the classes.
Iteration : A project schedule will be divided into several Iterations wherein work will be performed
that will slowly evolve the entirer solution over time. Iterations are managed as a Timebox with fixed
start and end dates.
Release : A subset of the end product that is the object of evaluation at a milestone. A release is a
stable, executable version of the product, together with any artifacts necessary to use this release, such
as release notes or installation instructions. A release can be internal or external.
Requirement: A description of a condition or capability of a system; either derived directly from user
needs or stated in a contract, standard, specification, or other formally imposed document.
Requirement discipline: A core discipline in the software engineering process whose purpose is to
define what the system should do. The most significant activity is to develop a use-case model.
Risk : An ongoing or impending concern that has a significant probability of adversely affecting the
success of major milestones.
Role: “A definition of the behavior and responsibilities of an individual or a set of individuals working
toether as a team.”
Sprint : See iteration. It is the word use by Scrum for an iteration.
Stakeholder: Any person or representative of an organization who has a stake in the outcome of a
project or whose opinion must be accommodated. A stakeholder can be an end user, a purchaser, a
contractor, a developer, or a project manager.
Test: A core discipline in the software engineering process whose purpose is to integrate and test the
system.
Workflow: “The sequence of activities performed in a business that produces a result of observable
value to an individual actor of the business.